---
title: racing
---

## Track Notes: GT3 Imola

![Imola Track](/img/tracks/Imola_2009.svg)

> Courtesy of
> [Wikipedia - Imola Circuit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imola_Circuit)

The following are some track notes for the Imola circuit to act as a quick
reference for **GT3** racing. Some gears might vary depending on the car.

## Target lap times

```
Pro: 1:39.5
Pro-Am: 1:42.0
Am: 1:44.0
```

## Track guide

### Sector 1

**Turn 1 - Variante Bassa**: straight line.

**Turn 2 - Variante Tamburello**: braking point is just after the orange
emergency exit marker. Shift down to `2nd`, careful with the turtle curb as it
can unsettle the car.

**Turn 3 - Variante Tamburello**: better to avoid the yellow curbs to be able to
apply throttle earlier in `2nd/3rd` gear. Do not use the exit curb but try to
stay in the middle of the track to prepare for the next turn.

**Turn 4 - Variante Tamburello**: can be taken full throttle in dry conditions,
potentially shifting up to `4th` gear. The exit has a serrated curb, use it
fully only if dry. Shouldn't worry about track limits here.

**Turn 5 - Variante Villeneuve**: braking point is at the 50m board. Shift down
to `4th/3rd` gear, careful with the yellow curbs. Sacrifice the exit by keeping
the car on the left.

**Turn 6 - Variante Villeneuve**: start braking as soon as the car is straight
down to `3rd/2nd` gear, pay attention to the yellow curbs. Serrated curb on the
exit, use it fully in dry conditions without worrying about track limits.

### Sector 2

**Turn 7 - Tosa**: braking point is at the 50m board, down to `2nd/1st` gear
with a late apex at focusing on the exit. Serrated curb on exit should be
avoided in wet conditions.

**Turn 8**: kink.

**Turn 9 - Piratella**: braking point is at the 50m board, apex while using the
inside curb in `3rd` gear, just after the two yellow curbs. Serrated curb on
exit, careful with the track limits.

**Turn 10**: continuation of turn 9, keep the car on the left side.

**Turn 11 - Acque Minerali**: braking point is at the 50m board, down to `3rd`
gear, turn the car in to just touch the apex in 4th gear.

**Turn 12 - Acque Minerali**: slow down as soon as possible to `2nd` gear. Try
to take advantage of the compression as the track goes uphill.

**Turn 13 - Acque Minerali**: on the exit of turn 12, use the serrated curb in
dry conditions. Be careful wiht track limits.

### Sector 3

**Turn 14/15 - Variante Alta**: start braking just before the start of the left
curbing, shifting down to `2nd/1st` gear to thread the car between the sausage
curbs. On exit, do not go past the serrated curb to avoid track limits.

**Turn 16**: straighten the car on exit as soon as possible to prepare for the
next turn.

**Turn 17 - Rivazza**: braking zone is downhill and should start as soon as the
car is straight near the 100m board, shifting down to `2nd/1st` gear. No need to
worry about track limits (avoid gravel).

**Turn 18 - Rivazza**: just before the end of the right curb, shortly tap the
brakes and take the turn in `1st/2nd` gear. Avoid the inside yellow curb while
using the exit serrated curb in dry conditions.

**Turn 19**: fast kink.
